# telescope-dew-heater

ESP8266 telescope heater to prevent condensation forming on the telescope. Uses a DHT11 to calculate the dew point and tries to keep the telescope 3 degrees above it. It uses a TMP36 temperature sensor to measure the telescope temperature. I wanted to avoid using anything that requires analog reading as I am using an ESP8266 NodeMCU, which aren't renowned for their ADC, but as the only other options I had were some thermistors which were wildly inaccurate, and another DHT11 which was rather innacurate for measuring the temperature of the telescope as it couldn't touch it. To compensate for the bad ADC and the fact that it would have a different analog reference voltage depending on the power supply, I made it do a calibration at startup, assuming that the TMP36 is around about the same temperature as the DHT11 so that it can compute the analog reference voltage that makes the two sensors read the same number.

It also hosts a web server that lets you see what it is measuring, and also, if you are connected to the internet, will also show a graph (I didn't want to put the graphing javascript onto that poor esp8266 because of memory limitations).

One thing to note is that the ESP8266 does get very hot. At least, mine gets really hot, so either you should find a different processor to do this (esp32 or pico W), and also make sure that the DHT11 is not going to be affected the heat from the microcontroller. As I found this out after building the whole thing, and I didn't particularly feel like rebuilding it, I instead opted for a 30mm fan and small heatsink on the ESP8266 to make sure that the box is constantly supplied with fresh air.
